---
title: Hello World
date: 2017-03-18 19:36:20
tags: [artificial intelligence, bootcamp, web development]
---
Welcome to my blog! This is my very first post, and of course, it has to be a "Hello World!" post.

## Zero Day

### Why have I chosen to start a blog?

I personally find listening and observing the experiences of others to be an important part of my personal learning and decision making. I often ask others about their life experience and advice about a certain topic to learn and make decisions about my own life. I don't follow their advice word for word (actually not at all), but I find it helpful to listen and think about different perspectives and outcomes to form my own opinion. However, I have found that I am currently in a unique position. A predicament that I find myself without any available resources to refer to.

### Some History

In order to understand my current predicament, it would be helpful to understand a little of my back story. I am Software Developer, and I absolutely love being a Developer and programming. I didn't go to school to for Computer Science. No. I went to school for Economics, because I enjoyed the topic, and I found that Economics came naturally to me. I never struggled in any of classes, and I thought that I would have a good life working in a job that related to Economics. After college, I ended up working as a Consultant, and realized what the real world is like outside of academia. I didn't like it. Everything that I studied meant nothing, as I wrote business reviews, analyzed data, and made recommendations. Once again, I didn't like it, but I did get really good at Excel. I decided that I enjoy the path that I was taking and wanted to make a change. I decided that I had two options:

- Get an MBA
- Go to Law School

Getting an MBA made sense, since I was already on the business career track, and the job description of some of the directors and executives that my company worked with were very interesting. Going to Law School made sense, since I've been interested in Law, especially Constitutional Law, ever since I was a freshman in college. However, after taking the LSAT and studying for the GMAT, people started to ask me, "What kind of lawyer do you what to be?" I would always say Tax Lawyer. It made sense to go for Tax Law. There's demand, you can make good money, and there's a decent amount of complexity to ensure you had some job security. That's when I realized it. That's when I realized just how big of a mistake I made. Demand, money, job security. In economic terms, all of that makes sense, but there was no passion. There was nothing in it for me besides the money. Well that's actually very debatable when you include the debt you'd have to incur. So I decided to take a break and truly think about what I enjoy in life. 

The first thing that came to my mind was technology and science. I remembered being a child watching Star Trek and Star Wars and just dreaming about being apart of either universe. However, I immediately rejected the idea. I was in business. I had a degree in Economics. I couldn't just go into science like that, so I kept on searching, and I couldn't come up with anything else. That's when I started to talk with one of my co-workers, who was going to school for their second bachelor's degree in computer science. We talked about the degree and the classes that they were taking, and that's when I realized that's what I wanted to do. Everyday, I would go home and watch videos about working as a programmer (mostly web), and I just knew that's what I want to do. I also thought about the dreams that I had as a child, and just how far drifted away from them. Eventually, I decided that I didn't like the way the game of life was set up for me. You have an Economics degree, therefore you can only business jobs. So, I flipped the table/game board. I didn't care. I was 22 years old at the time. I could hit the reset button and try again. However, I didn't know how I could do it, would I enjoy it, or if I'd be any good at it? I had three options:

- Get a Master's of Computer Science
- Get a Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science
- Go to a Coding BootCamp

I ended up quitting my job and choosing the BootCamp, because it required the least amount of money and total amount of time. A bachelor's would take two years, and my alma mater wasn't going to give financial aid for second bachelor's degree. It didn't make sense to go for a Master's degree, because I didn't know a single thing about computers and programming besides Microsoft Office and how to troubleshoot Windows. I wanted to make sure that I enjoyed it. I had taken some CodeAcademy courses on HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and couldn't help but to be excited that I created something from nothing. I wanted to see if I liked working in the industry before I made a huge commitment like a Master's degree. I also knew that I wasn't interested in Web Development. Out of all the topics I talked about with my co-worker, not once did we talk about Web Development. However, Web Development was easy. It didn’t require a degree to get a job, so I decided to go with the BootCamp. Now that's a story for another day. After I finished that 12 weeks of "intensive" learning and work, I spent close to 6 months looking for a job. During those 6 months, I was rejected by many employers, and I looked for ways to make myself a more impressive candidate. I taught myself different languages and technologies. I created new projects and continuously bolstered my resume and cover letters. I observed the job description that were posted. I was looking for a junior level position, and the job description were something alright. For a Front End Developer position I would see the requirements being: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JS Framework (React, Angular, Ember), PHP, Node.js, SASS, NPM, Java, Webpack or Gulp, Databases, and data structures and algorithms. That was for a front end developer position. For a Back End Developer, it was pretty much the same, except for requirement of a Computer Science degree. As someone who did both Front End and Back End work for my projects, I didn't understand the need for data structures and algorithms for a Front End Development position. I could understand if it were a Back End position, I could understand but not Front End. I concluded that it was simply HR copy text and didn't think much of it. However, I took note of all these requirements and decided to go for it. It couldn't possibly hurt. It would only make me a better candidate. Right?

### Awakening

It did. I learned more about MVC, back end development, and test driven development. However, I also started to look into Computer Science. I looked at courses online through MIT's OpenCourseWare and Udemy. I remember watching Intro to Computer Science with Professor Guttag, and I was absolutely giddy. He covered Python, the basics of Object Oriented Programming, Machine Learning, Regressions, Graph Theory and Nodes, and the growth of complexity of functions. It was an amazing experience, and I wanted to continue, because I was learning so much. I continued to explore my interests by learning more about Machine Learning and Hardware Programming. I decided to learn about Go (for everything), C/C++ for hardware, and Python for data. I bought an Arduino Uno, wrote some code in the Arduino IDE to have it make an LED blink on and off with a breadboard, some wires, and resistors. I jumped for joy when it worked. I wanted grab it and show it to first person I could find. I was going to call my mom and tell her to get the camera. It wasn't complicated at all. It wasn't even written in C or C++, but I felt alive. To see that I could connect things in physical world and write some code to control physical objects was absolutely amazing. It was surreal. This was a kick, a joy, a pleasure, I never experienced in Web Development. I've made plenty of servers in different languages, made plenty of web pages, connected to many APIs, and made many of my own APIs, but nothing came close to that feeling. That's when I realized just how much I was right, when I decided to get into this industry. However, there was a slight complication. I was a Web Developer. I work with web languages and technologies Of course, this was by design. When I decided go to the BootCamp, I didn't know if I'd be cut out to be a programmer. I didn't know if I'd like programming beyond just working with like minded individuals in my cohort. I decided that if I was good at and I liked it, I would go for a Master's in Computer Science and pursue those other more interesting areas of computer science I talked about with my former co-worker. Well little did I know that I'd turn out just fine. Web Development wasn't difficult as far as I could tell, and after six months looking for a job, I found one at a Non-Profit, which is a story for another day. I ultimately found that the Non-Profit wasn't a good fit and found employment at another company my BootCamp introduced me to. I enjoy the work that I do. Even though, I am a junior level developer, my ability to pick up quickly and learn new things and my "go getter" attitude allowed me to take an projects that are somewhat beyond what I was originally supposed to do when I was brought on. However, I couldn't but to notice the difference between what I was doing at work and what I was doing at home.

### Create. Read. Update. Delete.

CRUD. CRUD. CRUD. CRUD. If you wanted to summarize Web Development with one acronym, CRUD would be it. Someone want's to create data to share or use, they need to able read the data they created and what it generated, and they also need to update or delete that data. That has been the extent of Web Development as far as I could tell. You could use whatever technology you wanted to accomplish this, like Laravel, React, Node.js, or Drupal, but it's all the same. CRUD. I don't like CRUD. There's nothing wrong with it, but it's a rinse and repeat cycle that I don't care for. I don't want my work to summarized by it. I wanted to do things I did on my free time. I wanted to work on hardware and explore Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. I wanted my work to have a real impact. I didn't want to create app in React Native for people to use, and I didn't want to create web apps or websites, even though they did provide value for users. I couldn't argue with the fact that the work I was doing was better than what I was doing as a Consultant, but I wanted more. I had a hunger and desire for more interesting and intellectually stimulating work. Which brings to me back to why this blog was created. This blog was created to record my experience in my pursuit for the work I'd like to pursue. 

### The Reason

My goal isn't to tell people what to do but to provide a perspective and experience for others, who might be in my position, to observe. I've done my own research on the decisions that I am about to make in life, and I have found a lack/void of information about it. So many forums, blogs, and articles focus on the Web Development aspect. Quit your job, learn to code, and get a job as a Web Developer. How I got a $100k job as a Web Developer. Those are some of the articles and posts you'd see online. Not mention all the tutorials and articles that focus on Web Development. There's a plethora of Node.js and JavaScript tutorials online. There's no focus on the theory of computer science, artificial intelligence, or embedded systems. Sure there are plenty of articles talking about the future being about artificial intelligence and automation, but beyond that, there's not much. I hope to provide a story for others to follow and observe my journey into those fields. If you're curious about computer science and don't want to be a web developer, then please come along for the ride.

## TLDR / Conclusion

My goal for this blog is to highlight and record my experience as Web Developer, who lacks a Computer Science degree and went to a coding bootcamp, as I try to shift my career to more advanced topics in Computer Science, like Embedded Systems, Distributed Systems, and Artificial Intellegince.